
cfkaran2@gmail.com Unsubscribe
Attachments
Jul 26, 2016, 12:52 PM
to Military

Hi, my name is Cem Karan.  I work for the US Army Research Laboratory (ARL) in Adelphi, MD.  I'm in charge of defining the Open Source policy for ARL.  As a part of this, we need a license that meets our legal and regulatory needs, but is ideally fully interchangeable with the Apache 2.0 license as defined at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt. Unfortunately, since works created by US Government (USG) employees in the course of their duties cannot be copyrighted under US law, we cannot use the Apache 2.0 license directly, nor can we use any other copyright-based license; we must use a contract law-based license instead.  We looked into using the NOSA 1.3 license (https://opensource.org/licenses/NASA-1.3), but have been informed that it isn't fully compatible with many other Open Source licenses, so its use has been discouraged.  Work on NOSA 2.0 has apparently stalled out.  To the best of my knowledge, there are no other contract law-based Open Source licenses available that meet USG needs. 

For these reasons, we decided to create our own license, the Army Research Laboratory Open Source License (ARL OSL), which is a near-perfect copy of the Apache 2.0 license, but modified to rely on contract law instead of copyright law. Our goals are as follows:
We want our license to be fully accepted by OSI (https://opensource.org/) as a valid Open Source license.  I am currently in discussions with OSI about how to make this happen.  If you join the OSI License-discuss mailing list at https://opensource.org/lists, you can see how that is progressing.
Where and when possible, the license should use copyright protections, and fall back to contract law if copyright law is not applicable.  This should be true within a project, and even within different parts of the same file (e.g., because a USG employee created some parts, and a private citizen created another part).
The license should be fully inter-operable with the Apache 2.0 license as defined at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt.  I'm starting discussions with Apache about this now.  If you want to see where that is going, join the Apache legal-discuss mailing list at http://www.apache.org/foundation/mailinglists.html#foundation-legal.
The license must provide the same protections as the Apache 2.0 license to all contributors.
The license should be usable by anyone that wants to (USG or otherwise).
I've provided the complete license below; you can use any diff tool you wish to diff it against http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt to see what changed.  I've also attached the license file in case the formatting gets scrambled. That said, the summary of changes are below.
 

1) Changed the name and version number.

 

2) Changed the definition of 'Licensor' to use 'project originator' instead of 'copyright owner'.

 

3) Changed the definition of 'Work' to not use the word 'copyright'.

 

4) Changed the definition of 'Contributor' to use 'author' instead of 'copyright owner'.

 

5) Removed the word 'copyright' from the Appendix's instructions.

 

6) In the notice, removed the word 'Copyright'.

 

7) In the notice, changed 'copyright owner' to Licensor.

 

8) Scrambled the URL as we don't have one yet.



So, my questions for the group are as follows:

Are there any problems with the license?  If so, what are they?
Could your organization use this license?  Would it be interested in using this license?
Is there anything important that is missing?
Thank you,

Cem Karan

 

"""

         U.S. Army Research Laboratory Open Source License (ARL OSL)

                       Version 0.2.1, July 2016

                        Caution-http://no/URL/as/yet

 

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

 

   1. Definitions.

 

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,

      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

 

      "Licensor" shall mean the project originator or entity authorized by

      the project originator that is granting the License.

 

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all

      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common

      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,

      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the

      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or

      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the

      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

 

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity

      exercising permissions granted by this License.

 

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,

      including but not limited to software source code, documentation

      source, and configuration files.

 

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical

      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but

      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,

      and conversions to other media types.

 

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or

      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a

      notice that is included in or attached to the work

      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

 

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object

      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the

      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications

      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes

      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain

      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,

      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

 

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including

      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions

      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally

      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the author

      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of

      the author. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"

      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent

      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to

      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,

      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the

      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but

      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise

      designated in writing by the author as "Not a Contribution."

 

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity

      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and

      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

 

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of

      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,

      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable

      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,

      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the

      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

 

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of

      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,

      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable

      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,

      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,

      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable

      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their

      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)

      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You

      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a

      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work

      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct

      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses

      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate

      as of the date such litigation is filed.

 

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the

      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without

      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You

      meet the following conditions:

 

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or

          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

 

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices

          stating that You changed the files; and

 

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works

          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and

          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,

          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of

          the Derivative Works; and

 

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its

          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must

          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained

          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not

          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one

          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed

          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or

          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,

          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and

          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents

          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and

          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution

          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside

          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided

          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed

          as modifying the License.

 

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and

      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions

      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or

      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,

      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with

      the conditions stated in this License.

 

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,

      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work

      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of

      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.

      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify

      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed

      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

 

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade

      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,

      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the

      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

 

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or

      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each

      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,

      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or

      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions

      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A

      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the

      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any

      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

 

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,

      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,

      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly

      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be

      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,

      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a

      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the

      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,

      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all

      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor

      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

 

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing

      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,

      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,

      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this

      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only

      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf

      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,

      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability

      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason

      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

 

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 

   APPENDIX: How to apply the U.S. Army Research Laboratory Open Source

License (ARL OSL) to your work.

 

      To apply the ARL OSL to your work, attach the following

      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"

      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include

      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate

      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a

      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the

      same "printed page" as the notice for easier

      identification within third-party archives.

 

   [yyyy] [name of Licensor]

 

   Licensed under the the U.S. Army Research Laboratory Open Source License

(ARL OSL), Version 0.2.1 (the "License");

   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.

   You may obtain a copy of the License at

 

       Caution-http://no/URL/as/yet

 

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software

   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,

   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.

   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and

   limitations under the License.

"""

--
--
You received this message because you are subscribed to the "Military Open Source Software" Google Group.
To post to this group, send email to mil-oss@googlegroups.com
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to mil-oss+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com
For more options, visit this group at http://groups.google.com/group/mil-oss?hl=en
 
www.mil-oss.org

---
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Military Open Source Software" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to mil-oss+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.
 One attachment
  •  Scanned by Gmail
